Scenario 1: Polylex Realty Inc.
You are engaged to conduct the audit of the December financial statements of Polylex
Realty Inc. Polylex rents apartments to executives — often for long-term stays. Many of
the rentals are for six to 12 months and are prepaid by the executive’s employer for the
period. At year end, there was no deferred revenue related to prepaid rental apartments
showing on the balance sheet.
Scenario 2: Bose Construction Inc.
Bose Construction Inc. makes custom homes for consumers in the Vernon, B.C., area.
Customers will choose the design, materials, and finishings, which are then written into
a contract. Included in the contract are details of construction deadlines, invoicing and
payment (or construction draws), frequency, and other terms. Under normal
circumstances, the title of the house is transferred to the customer when the occupancy
permit is issued.
At year end, Bose has a number of projects that are in process; they use the proportion
of costs incurred to total estimated costs (i.e., cost to cost) to calculate the percentage
completion.
Scenario 3: Raintree Distribution Inc.
You are engaged in the year-end audit of Raintree Distribution Inc. Raintree sells
magazines to newsstands and other retailers with a one-month right of return. For
example, a retailer can return magazines that are sold in December to Raintree for a full
refund until the end of January of the next year. Raintree’s year end is December 31.
On average, the amount of returns is considered material.
Scenario 4: Best Dealership Inc.
You are the audit junior on the Best Dealership Inc. (BDI) year-end financial statement
audit. BDI sells luxury automobiles on Vancouver’s posh west side. The company’s year
end is June 30. In the automobile industry, June is an important month to clear out old
inventory and make way for the next year’s models. As such, there are a number of
promotions running then, and the sales people try hard to close deals before the end of
the month.


Required:
For each scenario, outline the following:
• risk for the financial statements
• account(s) and assertion(s) impacted
• procedure to perform
